docs/getting-started/hooks.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Hooks

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="lua" label="Luau" default>

Hooks allow you to integrate YetAnotherNet into any game architecture you want. These are simply functions that you can call whenever you want to process your Packets. It's recommended that you set your hooks to run on the Heartbeat using `RunService.Heartbeat`, so your Networking Code can be scheduled to run frame-by-frame as Net was designed to do.

To create a hook, you can use ``Net.createHook({ Route })`` and pass in a table of your Routes, then you can call it whenever you want to process your packets.

```lua
local RunService = game:GetService("RunService")

local Net = require("Net.luau")
local routes = require("routes.luau")

local hook = Net.createHook(routes)
RunService.Heartbeat:Connect(hook)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="Typescript">

Hooks allow you to integrate YetAnotherNet into any game architecture you want. These are simply functions that you can call whenever you want to process your Packets. It's recommended that you set your hooks to run on the Heartbeat using `RunService.Heartbeat`, so your Networking Code can be scheduled to run frame-by-frame as Net was designed to do.

To create a hook, you can use ``Net.createHook({ route: Route })`` and pass in an array of your Routes, then you can call it whenever you want to process your packets.

```ts
import { RunService } from "@rbxts/services";

import Net from "@rbxts/yetanothernet";
import routes from "shared/routes";

const hook = Net.createHook(routes);
RunService.Heartbeat.Connect(hook);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Improved Developer Workflow (String Requires, Scripts, GitHub Actions) (#21)
* Rename scripts

* Switch to Darklua workflow

* Update colum width

* Apply Stylua changes

* Add vscode settings

* Set exclusions in selene.toml

* Exclude docs in tsconfig.json

* Add Lint script

* Add GitHub Workflows

* Mention roblox-project-template in README.md

* Update luau-lsp

* Fix: Type Errors

* Update release process
Includes scripts for publishing to wally and npm

* Add CONTRIBUTING.md guide

docs/getting-started/hooks.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Hooks

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="lua" label="Luau" default>

Hooks allow you to integrate YetAnotherNet into any game architecture you want. These are simply functions that you can call whenever you want to process your Packets. It's recommended that you set your hooks to run on the Heartbeat using `RunService.Heartbeat`, so your Networking Code can be scheduled to run frame-by-frame as Net was designed to do.

To create a hook, you can use ``YetAnotherNet.createHook({ Route })`` and pass in a table of your Routes, then you can call it whenever you want to process your packets.

```lua
local RunService = game:GetService("RunService")

local YetAnotherNet = require("@packages/YetAnotherNet")
local routes = require("@shared/routes")

local hook = YetAnotherNet.createHook(routes)
RunService.Heartbeat:Connect(hook)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ts" label="Typescript">

Hooks allow you to integrate YetAnotherNet into any game architecture you want. These are simply functions that you can call whenever you want to process your Packets. It's recommended that you set your hooks to run on the Heartbeat using `RunService.Heartbeat`, so your Networking Code can be scheduled to run frame-by-frame as Net was designed to do.

To create a hook, you can use ``YetAnotherNet.createHook({ route: Route })`` and pass in an array of your Routes, then you can call it whenever you want to process your packets.

```ts
import { RunService } from "@rbxts/services";

import Net from "@rbxts/yetanothernet";
import routes from "shared/routes";

const hook = Net.createHook(routes);
RunService.Heartbeat.Connect(hook);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
